---
title: "[2024 - Onward Teaching] ELEC3100: Fundamentals of Electromagnegtic Waves and Fields"
collection: teaching
type: "Undergraduate course"
permalink: /teaching/ELEC3100
venue: "The University of Queensland, School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science"
date: 2024-07-01
location: "Brisbane, Australia"
---
<style>body {text-align: justify}</style>

In 2024 Semester 2, I'm lecturer of this third-year compulsory course (usually 150 students) and co-teach with senior colleagues (Prof. Aleksandar D. Rakić and Dr. Karl Bertling). 

**My teaching duties** (12 teaching weeks + 1 swotvac week + ...):
- deliver lectures (EM Potentials, Radiation, and Antenna) [2 hrs / wk], 
- prepare weekly 6 new oral examination problems and solutions (offer on-site help) [4 hrs / wk],
- prepare and deliver weekly contact-hour session with 6 solved problems [1 hr / wk)],
- prepare final exam and supplementary exam problems, solutions, and step-by-step marking criteria,
- prepare and coodinate oral examination (tutorial) with tutors to update weekly marking progress,
- deal with posted questions on online Ed discussion boards (Q&A sessions) [> 5 hr / week].

Before that (2020 - 2023), I'm a teaching assistant on this course with teaching duties:
- examinig students for weekly one-to-one oral examination [4 hrs / wk],
- deliver weekly contact-hour session with 6 solved problems [1 hr / wk)],
- marking final exams,
- Help Dr. Karl Bertling to prepare weekly oral examination problems, final exam questions, and corresponding solutions.

Course Curriculum
======
- Transmission Line Theory
- Phasor Representations, Vector Calculus, and so on
- Wave Equations and Maxwell Equations
- Boundary Conditions
- Plane wave in lossless and lossy media
- Wave in dispersive media
- Group and Phase Velocity
- Polarisation
- Poyting Theorem and Power
- Interface
- Metallic Waveguide and Rectangular Resonators
- EM Potentials (Static and Retarded)
- Radiation and Antenna

Textbook
=====
- Electromagnetics by Prof. Branislav M. Notaroš [IEEE Profile](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/author/37284410400)

- Field and Wave Electromagnetic by Prof. David Keun Cheng [DK Cheng's Intro. on Syracuse University website](https://library.syracuse.edu/digital/guides_sua/html/sua_cheng_dk.htm)

<!-- Heading 2
======

Heading 3
====== -->